Sourcemeta License

For commercial licensing questions, contact: hello@sourcemeta.com.

1. Grant of License

Sourcemeta ("Licensor") grants you ("Licensee") a limited, non-exclusive,
non-transferable, and revocable License to use the Sourcemeta Registry
("Software") under the following editions:

- Starter (Free): Limited to 100 schemas per deployed instance of the Software.
- Pro (Commercial): Limited to 1000 schemas per deployed instance of the Software.
- Enterprise (Commercial): No usage limits.

Each License is separately granted to a single Entity, where Entity refers to a
single legal or natural person, including a company, nonprofit, and government
agency. Subsidiaries, affiliates, and related legal persons are considered
separate Entities. Licensee must refrain from obtaining a commercial License if
it is an Entity sanctioned by the Licensor jurisdiction.

2. Usage & Modification Rights

- The Licensee must not modify, disable, or circumvent schema limits imposed by
  the Software or undermine the intended enforcement of Schema limits.

- The Licensee must not resell, sublicense, or provide the Software in any way
  that directly competes with Licensor or as part of a service that provides
  similar functionality to the Software itself. Hosting publicly available
  instances of the Software is permitted as long as the instances are never in
  direct control of an Entity other than the Licensee's.

- If Licensee has a commercial License, Licensee may modify the Software as
  long as those modifications do not modify, disable, or circumvent the Schema
  limits of any edition, directly or indirectly.

- If Licensee distributes commercial editions of the Software to another Entity
  for self-hosting purposes, Licensee must obtain a new paid License per Entity
  it distributes to

Licensee is excused for unknowingly breaking these terms if Licensee takes all
practical steps to comply within 30 days of learning that the License terms
were broken. Otherwise, failure to comply results in immediate automatic
termination of this License without the right to a refund.

3. License Certificate & Compliance

Commercial editions of the Software require a valid signed License certificate
issued by the Licensor and/or proof of payment to the Licensor for the monetary
amount published by Licensor at the time of purchase. The License is fully
refundable within 30 days of purchase. The Licensee is responsible for all
taxes, withholdings, duties and levies arising from the order.

Licensor reserves the right to audit the Licensee's compliance with this
License, including, but not limited to requesting schema usage reports and
software logs, and investigating potential circumvention attempts. Licensee
must provide proof of compliance within 14 days of an audit request.

Licensor reserves the right to amend this License at any time. Any
modifications will apply at the time of renewal and will not affect existing
active License agreements between Licensee and Licensor.

4. Subscription & Termination

For subscription-based Licenses:

- The License is valid only while the subscription is active.
- Upon expiration or termination of the subscription, Licensee must cease all
  use of the Software within 30 days or owe renewal License fees to Licensor.

5. External Contributions & Intellectual Property (IP)

Licensee may submit source code contributions to the Software.

- If the Licensee submits a source code contribution, all rights, title, and
  interest in the contribution are transferred to Licensor.
- Licensee warrants that they own all intellectual property rights to their
  contribution and accept full liability for any copyright or patent
  infringement.

6. Limitation of Liability

The Software is provided "as is", without warranties. Licensor is not liable
for any damages arising from its use under any kind of legal claim.

7. Governing Law & Jurisdiction

This License is governed by the laws of the jurisdiction of Licensor. Any
disputes shall be resolved in such jurisdiction.
