Sourcemeta JSON Schema Standard Library License

For acquiring a commercial license, visit: https://www.sourcemeta.com.

For licensing questions, contact: hello@sourcemeta.com

1. Grant of License

Sourcemeta ("Licensor") grants you ("Licensee") a limited, non-exclusive,
non-transferable, and revocable License to use the Sourcemeta JSON Schema
Standard Library ("Schemas") under the following editions:

- Community (Free): Non-commercial use only. Licensee may use and redistribute
  the Schemas for personal, research, academic, or any other non-commercial
  purposes. Use by or on behalf of a commercial entity, including but not
  limited to for-profit companies, is prohibited under this edition.

- Pro (Commercial): Commercial use without redistribution. Licensee may use the
  Schemas for commercial purposes, including as part of internal systems,
  APIs, and publicly exposed specifications (such as OpenAPI specifications).
  Redistribution of the Schemas as a direct feature or offering of Licensee's
  product or service is prohibited under this edition.

- Enterprise (Commercial): Commercial use with redistribution rights. Licensee
  may use and redistribute the Schemas as part of Licensee's product or
  service, including offering the Schemas as a feature to end users.

Each License is separately granted to a single Entity, where Entity refers to a
single legal or natural person, including a company, nonprofit, and government
agency. Subsidiaries, affiliates, and related legal persons are considered
separate Entities.

2. License Notice Requirement

All editions require that the "x-license" property present in each Schema file
must be preserved without modification. This property contains a reference to
this License and must remain intact in any use or distribution of the Schemas.

Removal or modification of the "x-license" property is only permitted under a
separate white-label OEM agreement negotiated directly with Licensor.

3. Usage Rights & Restrictions

- Redistribution under Community edition: Licensee may redistribute the Schemas
  to other parties for non-commercial purposes, provided that all recipients
  are subject to the same license terms and the "x-license" property is
  preserved.

- Redistribution definition: For purposes of this License, "redistribution"
  means directly offering or providing the Schemas as a feature, product, or
  service to third parties. Public exposure of the Schemas in API
  specifications, documentation, or validation endpoints is not considered
  redistribution.

- Commercial use definition: "Commercial use" means any use by or on behalf of
  a commercial entity or in connection with revenue-generating activities,
  regardless of whether the Schemas directly generate revenue.

- The Licensee must not modify, obscure, or remove any copyright notices,
  attribution, or the "x-license" property from the Schemas except as
  explicitly permitted by a white-label OEM agreement.

- The Licensee must not resell, sublicense, or provide the Schemas in any way
  that directly competes with Licensor or undermines Licensor's commercial
  licensing model.

Licensee is excused for unknowingly breaking these terms if Licensee takes all
practical steps to comply within 30 days of learning that the License terms
were broken. Otherwise, failure to comply results in immediate automatic
termination of this License without the right to a refund.

4. License Certificate & Compliance

Commercial editions (Pro and Enterprise) require a valid signed License
certificate issued by the Licensor and/or proof of payment to the Licensor for
the monetary amount published by Licensor at the time of purchase. The License
is fully refundable within 30 days of purchase. The Licensee is responsible for
all taxes, withholdings, duties and levies arising from the order.

Licensor reserves the right to audit the Licensee's compliance with this
License, including, but not limited to requesting usage reports and
investigating potential violations. Licensee must provide proof of compliance
within 14 days of an audit request.

Licensor reserves the right to amend this License at any time. Any
modifications will apply at the time of renewal and will not affect existing
active License agreements between Licensee and Licensor.

5. Subscription & Termination

- The License is valid only while the subscription is active.
- Upon expiration or termination of the subscription, Licensee must cease all
  commercial use of the Schemas within 30 days or renew the License.
- Community edition rights remain available after commercial subscription
  termination for non-commercial use only.

6. Intellectual Property Rights

All intellectual property rights in the Schemas remain with Licensor. No sale
or transfer of intellectual property rights is implied. The Schemas are
original works authored by Licensor or its contributors.

7. External Contributions

Licensee may submit contributions to the Schemas.

- If the Licensee submits a contribution, all rights, title, and interest in
  the contribution are transferred to Licensor.
- Licensee warrants that they own all intellectual property rights to their
  contribution and accept full liability for any copyright or patent
  infringement.

8. Limitation of Liability

The Schemas are provided "as is", without warranties of any kind, express or
implied, including but not limited to warranties of merchantability, fitness
for a particular purpose, accuracy, or non-infringement. Licensor is not liable
for any damages arising from use of the Schemas under any kind of legal claim,
including but not limited to direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, or
punitive damages. Licensee indemnifies Licensor and its affiliates against
claims arising from Licensee's use of the Schemas.

9. Governing Law & Jurisdiction

This License is governed by the laws of the jurisdiction of Licensor. Any
disputes shall be resolved in such jurisdiction.
