docs/commercial.md, before:

---
hide:
  - navigation
---

# Buy a Commercial License

*Ready to scale your JSON Schema management? Our commercial licensing ensures
you have the tools and support needed for enterprise deployments while
contributing to the continued development of industry-leading JSON Schema
technology.*

The Sourcemeta JSON Schema Registry is [publicly available on
GitHub](https://github.com/sourcemeta/registry) with full source code
transparency, enabling comprehensive auditing and community contributions.
While the codebase is accessible for review and collaboration, the Registry
operates under a [source-available
license](https://github.com/sourcemeta/registry/blob/main/LICENSE) rather than
a traditional open-source model.

## Starter Edition

You can deploy and use the Registry at no cost with all features included, up
to a specified limit of schemas (see the
[Pricing](https://www.sourcemeta.com/#pricing) page for more information). This
free tier is designed to support individual developers, small teams, and
organizations getting started with JSON Schema.

## Pro and Enterprise Editions

For deployments requiring ingestion of schemas beyond the free tier limit, a
commercial license from Sourcemeta is required. This licensing model enables us
to:

- Maintain and enhance the Registry's advanced capabilities
- Provide enterprise-grade support and reliability
- Continue investing in cutting-edge JSON Schema tooling development

## Our Commitment to Excellence

Sourcemeta is led by a member of the JSON Schema Technical Steering Committee,
ensuring our solutions meet the highest industry standards and remain aligned
with JSON Schema ecosystem developments. As an independent, bootstrapped
company without venture capital backing, we maintain complete focus on
delivering nothing less than exceptional JSON Schema tooling.

## Next Steps

- **Pricing Information**: Visit
  [sourcemeta.com](https://www.sourcemeta.com/#pricing) to review licensing
  options and purchase a commercial license
- **Questions & Support**: Contact us at
  [hello@sourcemeta.com](mailto:hello@sourcemeta.com) for licensing inquiries,
  technical questions, or implementation guidance

Commit message:

Only install Sourcemeta collections on commercial editions (#519)
Signed-off-by: Juan Cruz Viotti <jv@jviotti.com>

docs/commercial.md, after:

---
hide:
  - navigation
---

# Buy a Commercial License

*Ready to scale your JSON Schema management? Our commercial licensing ensures
you have the tools and support needed for enterprise deployments while
contributing to the continued development of industry-leading JSON Schema
technology.*

The Sourcemeta JSON Schema Registry is [publicly available on
GitHub](https://github.com/sourcemeta/registry) with full source code
transparency, enabling comprehensive auditing and community contributions.
While the codebase is accessible for review and collaboration, the Registry
operates under a [source-available
license](https://github.com/sourcemeta/registry/blob/main/LICENSE) rather than
a traditional open-source model.

## Starter Edition

You can deploy and use the Registry at no cost with all features included, up
to a specified limit of schemas (see the
[Pricing](https://www.sourcemeta.com/#pricing) page for more information). This
free tier is designed to support individual developers, small teams, and
organizations getting started with JSON Schema.

## Pro and Enterprise Editions

For deployments requiring ingestion of schemas beyond the free tier limit and
access to premium [built-in schema collections](library.md), a commercial
license from Sourcemeta is required. This licensing model enables us to:

- Maintain and enhance the Registry's advanced capabilities
- Provide enterprise-grade support and reliability
- Continue investing in cutting-edge JSON Schema tooling development

## Our Commitment to Excellence

Sourcemeta is led by a member of the JSON Schema Technical Steering Committee,
ensuring our solutions meet the highest industry standards and remain aligned
with JSON Schema ecosystem developments. As an independent, bootstrapped
company without venture capital backing, we maintain complete focus on
delivering nothing less than exceptional JSON Schema tooling.

## Next Steps

- **Pricing Information**: Visit
  [sourcemeta.com](https://www.sourcemeta.com/#pricing) to review licensing
  options and purchase a commercial license
- **Questions & Support**: Contact us at
  [hello@sourcemeta.com](mailto:hello@sourcemeta.com) for licensing inquiries,
  technical questions, or implementation guidance
