docs/configuration.md, before:

---
hide:
  - navigation
---

# Configuration Reference

The Sourcemeta Registry is designed around a GitOps workflow: all of its
behavior is determined by the configuration file documented here, and runtime
changes are not permitted. *This ensures that your Registry instance is fully
reproducible, auditable, and version-controlled, just like any other part of
your infrastructure.*

!!! success

    Because the Registry is entirely configured at build time (with changes
    applied only via a redeployment), it achieves significant performance
    advantages. Schemas are pre-optimized at build time, and the service itself
    is fully stateless, enabling effortless horizontal scaling and predictable
    performance under load.

This configuration file is designed to give you complete freedom to structure
your Registry instance in a way that best suits your organization. Compared to
many other schema registry solutions, it imposes no artificial constraints on
hierarchy, versioning, or schema organization. You can version and arrange your
schemas however you like: by department, by function, in a flat structure, or
in any other way you can think of. This allows your instance to reflect your
company's needs rather than a pre-defined model.

!!! note

    By convention, the name of the configuration file is `registry.json`.

The JSON Schema that defines `registry.json` can be mounted in the Registry as
a [built-in collection](library.md) called `@sourcemeta/registry`. You can
explore a live instance of the latest version at
[https://schemas.sourcemeta.com/sourcemeta/registry/configuration](https://schemas.sourcemeta.com/sourcemeta/registry/configuration).

!!! tip

    A great way to learn what's possible is to explore the configuration file
    of the [schemas.sourcemeta.com](https://schemas.sourcemeta.com) public
    example instance, which you can find [on
    GitHub](https://github.com/sourcemeta/registry/blob/main/public/registry.json)

For example, a minimal Registry configuration that mounts a single schema
collection (`./schemas`) at URL
`https://schemas.example.com/my-first-collection` may look like this, and a
schema at `./schemas/foo.json` will be available at
`https://schemas.example.com/my-first-collection/foo.json`:

```json title="registry.json"
{
  "url": "https://schemas.example.com",
  "port": 8000,
  "contents": {
    "my-first-collection": {
      "path": "./schemas"
    }
  }
}
```

## `registry.json`

The configuration file controls your entire Registry instance through various
top-level properties that define both global settings and content structure.
For representing the contents of the Registry, this file uses a hierarchical
tree approach where you organise the contents of your Registry using nested
nodes.  Each node in this tree serves as either a schema collection (containing
actual schemas) or a page (acting as a directory that groups other pages and
schema collections), giving you complete flexibility in structuring your
instance.

| Property        | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `/url`          | String  | :red_circle: **Yes** | N/A | The absolute URL on which the Registry will be served. Every ingested schema will have a schema identifier URI relative to this URL |
| `/port`         | Integer | :red_circle: **Yes** | N/A | The TCP port on which the Registry server will listen on |
| `/extends`      | Array   | No  | None | One or more configuration files to extend from. See the [Extends](#extends) section for more information |
| `/contents`     | Object  | No  | None | The top-level [Collections](#collections) and [Pages](#pages) that compose the Registry instance |
| `/html`        | Object or Boolean  | No  | `true` | Settings for the HTML explorer. If set to `false`, the Registry runs in headless mode. See the [HTML](#html) section for more details |

### HTML

When enabled through the optional `html` top-level property, the Registry
generates an HTML explorer interface. Unlike the basic JSON API, this explorer
provides a user-friendly web interface for browsing and examining your schemas.
You can customize the explorer's appearance and behavior using the
configuration options detailed below.

| Property        | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `/name`        | String  | No  | *Sourcemeta* | The concise name of the Registry instance. For example, the name of your organisation. This will be shown in the navigation bar in the HTML explorer |
| `/description`  | String  | No  | *The next-generation JSON Schema Registry* | A longer description of the Registry instance. This will be shown in HTML meta tags |
| `/head`         | String  | No  | None | An HTML snippet to include in the `<head>` section of the HTML explorer. Useful for website analytics purposes or for custom styles |
| `/hero`         | String  | No  | None | An HTML snippet to render in the front page of the Registry. Try to make this snippet as standalone as possible using `style` HTML attributes |
| `/action`       | Object  | No  | None | A call-to-action button to render in the navigation bar of the HTML explorer |
| `/action/title` | String  | Yes | N/A | The text of the call-to-action button |
| `/action/icon`  | String  | Yes | N/A | The icon name of the call-to-action button, which must match the name of an icon in the [Bootstrap Icons](https://icons.getbootstrap.com) collection |
| `/action/url`   | String  | Yes | N/A | The absolute URL of the call-to-action button |

## Collections

A schema collection functions as a curated set of schemas that the Registry
instance ingests and serves at a specified location. Unlike pages, schema
collections contain the actual schema definitions that power your registry.

!!! warning

    The Registry maintains data integrity by rejecting any schemas that fail
    against their meta-schemas or that cannot be fully resolved during the
    ingestion process. For this reason, you may need to explicitly inform the
    Registry about default dialects, base URIs, or custom overrides for schema
    reference resolution.

    If you are facing any difficulties with this, don't hesitate in asking for
    help using [GitHub
    Discussions](https://github.com/sourcemeta/registry/discussions). We are
    here to help!

| Property        | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `/path`         | String  | :red_circle: **Yes** | N/A | The path (relative to the location of the configuration file) to the directory which includes the schemas for this collection. The directory will be recursively traversed in search of `.json`, `.yaml`, or `.yml` schemas |
| `/base`         | String  | No  | *The `file://` URI of the configuration directory* | The base URI of every schema file that is part of this collection, for rebasing purposes. If a schema defines an explicit identifier that is not relative to this base URI, the generation of the Registry will fail |
| `/defaultDialect` | String  | No  | None | The default JSON Schema dialect URI to use for schemas that do not declare the `$schema` keyword |
| `/title`        | String  | No  | None | The concise title of the schema collection |
| `/description`  | String  | No  | None | A longer description of the schema collection |
| `/email`        | String  | No  | None | The e-mail address associated with the schema collection |
| `/github`       | String  | No  | None | The GitHub organisation or `organisation/repository` identifier associated with the schema collection |
| `/website`      | String  | No  | None | The absolute URL to the website associated with the schema collection |
| `/includes`     | String  | No  | None | A `jsonschema.json` manifest definition to include in-place. See the [Includes](#includes) section for more information. **If this property is set, none of the other properties can be set** |
| `/resolve`      | Object  | No  | None | A URI-to-URI map to hook into the schema reference resolution process. See the [Resolve](#resolve) section for more information |

### Includes

The `includes` property enables modular schema collection management by
allowing you to extract collection definitions into separate `jsonschema.json`
files and reference them in-place. Unlike inline definitions, this approach
promotes reusability across multiple configuration files while maintaining
clean separation of concerns. Each included `jsonschema.json` file contains the
same properties as a standard schema collection definition, with the Registry
seamlessly integrating the external file's contents at the specified location
during processing. For example:

```json hl_lines="6" title="registry.json"
{
  "url": "https://schemas.example.com",
  "port": 8000,
  "contents": {
    "my-first-collection": {
      "includes": "./jsonschema.json"
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="jsonschema.json"
{
  "title": "My Schema Collection"
  "path": "./schemas"
}
```

### Resolve

The `resolve` property is an advanced feature to hook into the schema reference
resolution process. When set, the object translates any reference that equals a
property name in the object to the corresponding property value.

This is useful when mounting schemas that consume other external schemas and
you want to route the reference back into the Registry instance. For example,
let's say your schema collection depends on [GeoJSON](https://geojson.org) and
has various references to its latest official URL:
`https://geojson.org/schema/GeoJSON.json`. Instead of depending on an external
resource outside your control, you can configure the Registry to extend from
the [`@geojson/v1.0.5`](library.md) built-in collection and rephrase the
`https://geojson.org/schema/GeoJSON.json` references to consume from the
internal version:

```json hl_lines="4 9" title="registry.json"
{
  "url": "https://schemas.example.com",
  "port": 8000,
  "extends": [ "@geojson/v1.0.5" ]
  "contents": {
    "my-first-collection": {
      "path": "./schemas",
      "resolve": {
        "https://geojson.org/schema/GeoJSON.json": "/geojson/v1.0.5/geojson.json"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Pages

A page functions as an organizational container within the Registry instance.
Unlike schema collections, pages don't contain schemas directly—instead, they
group other pages or schema collections together. For instance, you might
create a hierarchy of pages representing your organization's teams, where each
team page contains the schema collections they own.

| Property        | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `/title`        | String  | No  | None | The concise title of the page |
| `/description`  | String  | No  | None | A longer description of the page |
| `/email`        | String  | No  | None | The e-mail address associated with the page |
| `/github`       | String  | No  | None | The GitHub organisation or `organisation/repository` identifier associated with the page |
| `/website`      | String  | No  | None | The absolute URL to the website associated with the page |
| `/extends`      | Array   | No  | None | One or more configuration files to extend from. See the [Extends](#extends) section for more information |
| `/contents`     | Object  | No  | None | The nested [Collections](#collections) and [Pages](#pages) inside this page |

## Extends

The `extends` property enables configuration inheritance, allowing either your
top-level schema or individual pages to build upon existing configuration files
for enhanced reusability and modularity. This property accepts an array of
strings where each entry represents either a file path (relative from the
configuration file location) or a [built-in schema collection
identifier](library.md) (prefixed with `@`). For example:

```json hl_lines="4" title="registry.json"
{
  "url": "https://schemas.example.com",
  "port": 8000,
  "extends": [ "@geojson/v1.0.5", "../path/to/my/other/config/registry.json" ]
}
```

!!! note

    The Registry processes these extensions through deep-merging, where each
    extended configuration file merges into the previous one in sequence, with
    your top-level configuration file taking final precedence over the combined
    result.

Commit message:

Improve and document `x-sourcemeta-registry:evaluate`
Signed-off-by: Juan Cruz Viotti <jv@jviotti.com>

docs/configuration.md, after:

---
hide:
  - navigation
---

# Configuration Reference

The Sourcemeta Registry is designed around a GitOps workflow: all of its
behavior is determined by the configuration file documented here, and runtime
changes are not permitted. *This ensures that your Registry instance is fully
reproducible, auditable, and version-controlled, just like any other part of
your infrastructure.*

!!! success

    Because the Registry is entirely configured at build time (with changes
    applied only via a redeployment), it achieves significant performance
    advantages. Schemas are pre-optimized at build time, and the service itself
    is fully stateless, enabling effortless horizontal scaling and predictable
    performance under load.

This configuration file is designed to give you complete freedom to structure
your Registry instance in a way that best suits your organization. Compared to
many other schema registry solutions, it imposes no artificial constraints on
hierarchy, versioning, or schema organization. You can version and arrange your
schemas however you like: by department, by function, in a flat structure, or
in any other way you can think of. This allows your instance to reflect your
company's needs rather than a pre-defined model.

!!! note

    By convention, the name of the configuration file is `registry.json`.

The JSON Schema that defines `registry.json` can be mounted in the Registry as
a [built-in collection](library.md) called `@sourcemeta/registry`. You can
explore a live instance of the latest version at
[https://schemas.sourcemeta.com/sourcemeta/registry/configuration](https://schemas.sourcemeta.com/sourcemeta/registry/configuration).

!!! tip

    A great way to learn what's possible is to explore the configuration file
    of the [schemas.sourcemeta.com](https://schemas.sourcemeta.com) public
    example instance, which you can find [on
    GitHub](https://github.com/sourcemeta/registry/blob/main/public/registry.json)

For example, a minimal Registry configuration that mounts a single schema
collection (`./schemas`) at URL
`https://schemas.example.com/my-first-collection` may look like this, and a
schema at `./schemas/foo.json` will be available at
`https://schemas.example.com/my-first-collection/foo.json`:

```json title="registry.json"
{
  "url": "https://schemas.example.com",
  "port": 8000,
  "contents": {
    "my-first-collection": {
      "path": "./schemas"
    }
  }
}
```

## `registry.json`

The configuration file controls your entire Registry instance through various
top-level properties that define both global settings and content structure.
For representing the contents of the Registry, this file uses a hierarchical
tree approach where you organise the contents of your Registry using nested
nodes.  Each node in this tree serves as either a schema collection (containing
actual schemas) or a page (acting as a directory that groups other pages and
schema collections), giving you complete flexibility in structuring your
instance.

| Property        | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `/url`          | String  | :red_circle: **Yes** | N/A | The absolute URL on which the Registry will be served. Every ingested schema will have a schema identifier URI relative to this URL |
| `/port`         | Integer | :red_circle: **Yes** | N/A | The TCP port on which the Registry server will listen on |
| `/extends`      | Array   | No  | None | One or more configuration files to extend from. See the [Extends](#extends) section for more information |
| `/contents`     | Object  | No  | None | The top-level [Collections](#collections) and [Pages](#pages) that compose the Registry instance |
| `/html`        | Object or Boolean  | No  | `true` | Settings for the HTML explorer. If set to `false`, the Registry runs in headless mode. See the [HTML](#html) section for more details |

### HTML

When enabled through the optional `html` top-level property, the Registry
generates an HTML explorer interface. Unlike the basic JSON API, this explorer
provides a user-friendly web interface for browsing and examining your schemas.
You can customize the explorer's appearance and behavior using the
configuration options detailed below.

| Property        | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `/name`        | String  | No  | *Sourcemeta* | The concise name of the Registry instance. For example, the name of your organisation. This will be shown in the navigation bar in the HTML explorer |
| `/description`  | String  | No  | *The next-generation JSON Schema Registry* | A longer description of the Registry instance. This will be shown in HTML meta tags |
| `/head`         | String  | No  | None | An HTML snippet to include in the `<head>` section of the HTML explorer. Useful for website analytics purposes or for custom styles |
| `/hero`         | String  | No  | None | An HTML snippet to render in the front page of the Registry. Try to make this snippet as standalone as possible using `style` HTML attributes |
| `/action`       | Object  | No  | None | A call-to-action button to render in the navigation bar of the HTML explorer |
| `/action/title` | String  | Yes | N/A | The text of the call-to-action button |
| `/action/icon`  | String  | Yes | N/A | The icon name of the call-to-action button, which must match the name of an icon in the [Bootstrap Icons](https://icons.getbootstrap.com) collection |
| `/action/url`   | String  | Yes | N/A | The absolute URL of the call-to-action button |

## Collections

A schema collection functions as a curated set of schemas that the Registry
instance ingests and serves at a specified location. Unlike pages, schema
collections contain the actual schema definitions that power your registry.

!!! warning

    The Registry maintains data integrity by rejecting any schemas that fail
    against their meta-schemas or that cannot be fully resolved during the
    ingestion process. For this reason, you may need to explicitly inform the
    Registry about default dialects, base URIs, or custom overrides for schema
    reference resolution.

    If you are facing any difficulties with this, don't hesitate in asking for
    help using [GitHub
    Discussions](https://github.com/sourcemeta/registry/discussions). We are
    here to help!

| Property        | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `/path`         | String  | :red_circle: **Yes** | N/A | The path (relative to the location of the configuration file) to the directory which includes the schemas for this collection. The directory will be recursively traversed in search of `.json`, `.yaml`, or `.yml` schemas |
| `/baseUri`         | String  | No  | *The `file://` URI of the configuration directory* | The base URI of every schema file that is part of this collection, for rebasing purposes. If a schema defines an explicit identifier that is not relative to this base URI, the generation of the Registry will fail |
| `/defaultDialect` | String  | No  | None | The default JSON Schema dialect URI to use for schemas that do not declare the `$schema` keyword |
| `/title`        | String  | No  | None | The concise title of the schema collection |
| `/description`  | String  | No  | None | A longer description of the schema collection |
| `/email`        | String  | No  | None | The e-mail address associated with the schema collection |
| `/github`       | String  | No  | None | The GitHub organisation or `organisation/repository` identifier associated with the schema collection |
| `/website`      | String  | No  | None | The absolute URL to the website associated with the schema collection |
| `/includes`     | String  | No  | None | A `jsonschema.json` manifest definition to include in-place. See the [Includes](#includes) section for more information. **If this property is set, none of the other properties can be set** |
| `/resolve`      | Object  | No  | None | A URI-to-URI map to hook into the schema reference resolution process. See the [Resolve](#resolve) section for more information |
| `/x-sourcemeta-registry:evaluate`      | Boolean  | No  | `true` | When set to `false`, disable the evaluation API for this schema collection |

### Includes

The `includes` property enables modular schema collection management by
allowing you to extract collection definitions into separate `jsonschema.json`
files and reference them in-place. Unlike inline definitions, this approach
promotes reusability across multiple configuration files while maintaining
clean separation of concerns. Each included `jsonschema.json` file contains the
same properties as a standard schema collection definition, with the Registry
seamlessly integrating the external file's contents at the specified location
during processing. For example:

```json hl_lines="6" title="registry.json"
{
  "url": "https://schemas.example.com",
  "port": 8000,
  "contents": {
    "my-first-collection": {
      "includes": "./jsonschema.json"
    }
  }
}
```

```json title="jsonschema.json"
{
  "title": "My Schema Collection"
  "path": "./schemas"
}
```

### Resolve

The `resolve` property is an advanced feature to hook into the schema reference
resolution process. When set, the object translates any reference that equals a
property name in the object to the corresponding property value.

This is useful when mounting schemas that consume other external schemas and
you want to route the reference back into the Registry instance. For example,
let's say your schema collection depends on [GeoJSON](https://geojson.org) and
has various references to its latest official URL:
`https://geojson.org/schema/GeoJSON.json`. Instead of depending on an external
resource outside your control, you can configure the Registry to extend from
the [`@geojson/v1.0.5`](library.md) built-in collection and rephrase the
`https://geojson.org/schema/GeoJSON.json` references to consume from the
internal version:

```json hl_lines="4 9" title="registry.json"
{
  "url": "https://schemas.example.com",
  "port": 8000,
  "extends": [ "@geojson/v1.0.5" ]
  "contents": {
    "my-first-collection": {
      "path": "./schemas",
      "resolve": {
        "https://geojson.org/schema/GeoJSON.json": "/geojson/v1.0.5/geojson.json"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Pages

A page functions as an organizational container within the Registry instance.
Unlike schema collections, pages don't contain schemas directly—instead, they
group other pages or schema collections together. For instance, you might
create a hierarchy of pages representing your organization's teams, where each
team page contains the schema collections they own.

| Property        | Type | Required | Default | Description |
|-----------------|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `/title`        | String  | No  | None | The concise title of the page |
| `/description`  | String  | No  | None | A longer description of the page |
| `/email`        | String  | No  | None | The e-mail address associated with the page |
| `/github`       | String  | No  | None | The GitHub organisation or `organisation/repository` identifier associated with the page |
| `/website`      | String  | No  | None | The absolute URL to the website associated with the page |
| `/extends`      | Array   | No  | None | One or more configuration files to extend from. See the [Extends](#extends) section for more information |
| `/contents`     | Object  | No  | None | The nested [Collections](#collections) and [Pages](#pages) inside this page |

## Extends

The `extends` property enables configuration inheritance, allowing either your
top-level schema or individual pages to build upon existing configuration files
for enhanced reusability and modularity. This property accepts an array of
strings where each entry represents either a file path (relative from the
configuration file location) or a [built-in schema collection
identifier](library.md) (prefixed with `@`). For example:

```json hl_lines="4" title="registry.json"
{
  "url": "https://schemas.example.com",
  "port": 8000,
  "extends": [ "@geojson/v1.0.5", "../path/to/my/other/config/registry.json" ]
}
```

!!! note

    The Registry processes these extensions through deep-merging, where each
    extended configuration file merges into the previous one in sequence, with
    your top-level configuration file taking final precedence over the combined
    result.
